# S3 Terminology
S3 stands for Simple Storage Service and is object level storage in AWS. It is a very versatile storage system with many features, but the terminology may be confusing at first. Here is a description of the terminology used in S3.

### Object
A object is a file and any metadata that describes that file. It can be from 0 bytes to 5 TB in size. It will include the following:
* Key - This is the name you assign to the object.
* Version ID - Unique string, generated by S3, to identify the object.
* Value - This is the content of the thing you are storing. It may be a image, a text file, or perhaps raw data. Really the only things that can't be stored are an operating system or a database. Nothing can "run" in S3.
* Metadata - Like tags, this is name-value pairs used for storing information about the object.
* Subresources - mechanism used to store object-specific additional information. They are always associated with some other entity.
* Access control information - S3 supports both ACL and bucket policies as well as user-based access control. By default buckets and the objects are private.
* 
### Bucket
Think of a bucket in S3 as the container you are going to put objects into. 100 buckets is the default limit. Unless you specify 1 availability zone, or 1a, creating a bucket will replicate the bucket across several AZ in the region for high availability.

### Regions
You should create your bucket in a Region close to where you need it.

### Keys
The Key is the name you give an object.

### Prefix
You can think of a prefix as a folder, because that is how it is represented in the bucket. Creating a prefix is creating a object. This can increase REST operation performance with prefixes. Read requests are 5,500 reads per second per prefix.

### Object URL
Bucket names are DNS compliant. Objects in the bucket have a URL for location and access.

### Eventual Consistency
EBS volumes are considered consistent. With S3, when you create a bucket, it is typically replicated in several AZ's. When you update or add an object to S3, it may take up to a minute, typically ms to replicate the change to the other buckets.

### Static Hosting
A static site does not have dynamic data and are perfect for hosting on S3 

### REST interface 
You can use the S3 API to use representational State Transfer (REST) http methods to perform Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) operations.

### Storage Classes
These are the various levels of S3.
* Standard
* S3 Infrequent Access (IA)
* S3 One-Zone-IA
* Glacier
  * Instant Retrieval
  * Flexible Retrieval
  * Deep Archive

### Life Cycle Policy
Set these policies to automatically move objects into or out of storage classes

### Versioning
Enables the ability to keep track of versions of objects. Has to be turned on. Can not be turned of, just suspended, which stops additional versions to be tracked.

### Glacier
S3 bucket for archive data. Uses AES-256 encryption. Three access methods:
* Expedited (3-5) minutes
* Standard (3-5 hours)
* Bulk (5-12 hours)

### Archive
Object in Glacier

### Vault
S3 bucket, but Glacier

### Vault Lock
Secure your Vault

### Write Once Read Many (WORM)
You can lock an object with object lock in a bucket. Versioning has to be enabled to use. Uses this WORM storage method.

You can find EBS under Storage in the AWS Console.
true
false